## Submitting assignments

All homework submissions must be submitted in the form of an
[email patchset](patchsets.md)
generated by `git format-patch` from
[commits](#commit-guidelines)
made in your local copy of
[this repository](https://spring2025-utsa.kdlp.underground.software/cgit/ILKD_Submissions/)
with a
[cover letter](coverletters.md)
describing your work, and sent by `git send-email` to our
[mailing list](mailinglist.md).

As part of the [peer-review process](#peer-review-guidelines) for coding assignments in this class,
each assignment will require you to submit each patchset at least twice.

Note that version numbers are maintained between RFC and non-RFC patchsets--in the best case,
your RFC would be v1 and your final submission would be v2.
Your cover letter shoud include a summary of changes since the previous version.

Try to start your assignments early. If you run into issues and get stuck it gives
you time to ask questions and get help before the due date so you can submit something
on time and get credit for the assignment. If you finish early, [you can resubmit](#resubmission-guidelines).

Any code submission that:

* violates these guidelines,

* compiles with warnings, or

* fails to compile and produces errors

will receive a zero.

With the exception of presentations, all work in this course takes place on our mailing list.
Students submit assignments and review peer submissions on this list.

Each assignment involves the following three stages:

### Step 1: Initial submission

* The student makes their submission to the mailing list using `git-send-email`

* This submission is due on Tuesday the week the assignment is listed

* If the initial submission is late, the student will get a zero on the entire assignment

### Step 2: Peer review

* Each student is assigned two other students' work to review

* If the student approves of a submission, then the student will reply to the cover letter
of the patchset with a single line containing the following:

```
Acked-by: $FIRSTNAME $LASTNAME <$USERNAME@spring2025-utsa.kdlp.underground.software>
```

* If the student finds issues with a submission, then the student will reply to the cover letter
of the patchset with detailed feedback about their concerns and conclude the email
with a single line containing the following:

```
Peer-reviewed-by: $FIRSTNAME $LASTNAME <$USERNAME@spring2025-utsa.kdlp.underground.software>
```

* In parallel, other students have been assigned the student's submission
and the student should receive feedback from two other students

* These reviews are due one day past the initial submission, a late or no submission results in a zero for the review section of the assignment

* Reviews are graded based on how many issues a student missed.
The student receives 20% off for each unique issue not spotted with max penalty of 100%

### Step 3: Final submission

* The student, if canny, will act on the feedback from the received reviews.

* Regardless of whether the student made changes to their initial submission,
they must make a final submission

* A late or missing final submission will result in a zero grade for the assignment

* This is due two days after the initial submission, and due one day after the deadline for sending reviews

* The total assignment grade is composed of 80% for the final submission, and 10% for each peer review

* While the initial submission is not explicitly graded, failure to submit anything or
submissions devoid of content will result in a zero
