## Lecture 06: 26 September 2024

**Important notes about homework in this class**

You must make an initial submission to the correct address
listed in the "what to submit" section of each assignment
otherwise you will get a 0.

You can get extra credit in this class for contributing to
the course
[material](https://github.com/underground-software/ILKD_course_materials)
and
[infrastructure](https://github.com/underground-software/singularity).
There are many open issues to choose from.
The more you contribute, the more extra credit you will receive.
The amount of extra credit will be determined on a case-by-case basis.
Also, you can put these open source contributions in your resume
and discuss them in interviews.

To insert the output of commands right into vim,
use "r!\<command\>" in the vim command line.

We highly recommend you backup your coursework to some place other than your VM.
You can make a private (!) GitHub repo and/or clone to your local machine via SSH.
Another option is to use rsync.

When you make an initial submission, you include the "RFC" tag in your subject line
to mark that your patchset is a "request for comments".
Remove "RFC" when you make your final submission, but increment your patchset version
number to the next number after your last initial submission version.
E.g. if your last initial submission had the [RFC PATCH v3 x/y] tag, then your first
final submission will have the [PATCH v4 x/y] tag.

You should verify that your patchset applies locally before making a submission.
Do this by checking out a clean branch based on the latest master branch and
running `git am` on your code patch files. Your cover letter is not a code patch file.

Look at the scripts provided in `.git/hooks`.
The sample scripts for `git commit` can automatically detect whitespace errors, and
the sample for `git send-email` can automatically attempt to apply your patches.

We will give you a 0 for an assignment if your patches don't apply or if you submit to the wrong address.
This is the only mistake you cannot make on your initial submission. Making these mistakes
on your last initial or final submission before a due date
will earn you a 0 for the entire assignment. These are mistakes that
you can easily test for locally with a standard process. We clearly explain how and where
to submit assignments on this website and we have spent ample classtime reviewing the process
and answering questions, so we will hold you to this standard without exception. Today
was your final warning.

If you have not done so, get started on P0 as soon as possible! Each step is more and more
difficult. We will be more generous with helping students who are taking initiative early.
Grad students should note that they have extra steps to complete for this assignment.
