## Lecture 07: 31 September 2024

What ways can your program crash? Has anyone written a C program that crashed? what happened?

Crash type iceberg:
 - SIGSEGV
 - SIGFPE
 - SIGBUS
 - SIGILL

try and write some assembly code that executes illegal or privileged instructions. What happens?

What mechanism underlies this

traps exceptions interrupts aborts

<https://github.com/underground-software/kernel-stash/blob/master/KDLP/kernel_basics.md>

OLD L06:

1. Processes (35m)
  1. PID, TGID kernel vs userspace lingo
  1. parent/child relationships
  1. PID 1, subreapers (`prctl(PR_SET_CHILD_SUBREAPER)`), and orphans
  1. PID namespaces, unshare, containers
1. file descriptors & syscalls (35m)
  1. what is a file descriptor
  1. usage in syscalls
  1. everything is a file (descriptor)
  1. fopen vs open: beyond the libc
  1. signals: SIGCHLD, SIGPIPE

What is a file?
 - references open file on disk (could refer to a directory or a symlink too)
 - even unix had seeds of something else (block and char devices, sockets and fifos)
 - the real answer is a handle to some sort of kernel resource
What is a signal?
 - naive answer is asynchronous notification that calls a function
 - really just an upcall from kernel space to userspace
 - actually not nessecarily a function call, or asynchronous (signalfd)
What is a syscall?
 - naive answer is magic function call that invokes the kernel
 - could write a program that invokes no syscalls, but its results would not be obvservable (caveat, maybe?)
 - really it is the atom of observable computing
 - not even really a function call (io_uring)
What is a process, what is a thread?
 - naive answer is fork and pthread create,
 - in reality they are points within a multidimensional space governed by unshare
